ORAL PROFICIENCY INTERVIEW by COMPUTER

An Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) is a standardized, global assessment of functional speaking ability. Taking the form of a conversation between the tester and test-taker, the test measures how well a person speaks a language by assessing their performance of a range of language tasks against specified criteria.
 
1. INTRODUCING ONESELF 
Tell me a little bit about yourself and what you do for a living
Tell me a little bit about yourself and where you live.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and what you do in your free time.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your school.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your hobbies.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your normal daily routine.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your best friend.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and what you usually do on the weekend.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your interests – things you like.
Tell me a little bit about yourself and your family.
2. NEIGHBORHOOD
I would like to talk about where you live. Describe your house to me. What does it look like? Where is it located?
Let’s talk about where you live. Tell me what you like and don’t like about your neighborhood.
Tell me how you first met one of your neighbors. Describe in detail when you met and everything that happened during your fist few meetings.
Tell me what you do with your neighbors. How often do you see them? What do you like to do with them and what do you usually talk about with them?
Think back to the day when you moved into the place you live in. When did you move? Did you have anybody who helped you? Tell me everything that happened on that moving day.
Tell me what adults and children do together in your neighborhood.
When was the last time you went to the neighborhood park? Tell me everything: Where you went, who you went with, what you did, etc.
What kind of community do you live in? Are the people mostly students? Newly-weds? Parents with children? Or retired people? Tell me also how you interest with your neighbors.
I would like to know whether there were any memorable events that took place in your neighborhood since you started living there. Can you tell me about the event and why it was so memorable?
3. WEEKEND
What things do you usually do on the weekend? Do you watch TV? Do you catch up on sleep? What else do you do on the weekend?
4. RESTAURANT
Describe one of you favorite restaurants where you often go to eat at. What type of food do they serve there? What do you like about that restaurant?
5. FAMILY
Tell me how you spend time with your family or friends. Do you go to parks? Do you chat on the phone? What do you normally do to keep in touch and spend time with family and friends?
6. SHOPPING
Tell me about your favorite store to shop at. What is the name of the store and what kind of store is it? What do you like about that store?
7. SPORTS
Can you describe a sporting event you’ve been to? What was the event? What was game like? What was the final outcome of the game?
You indicated that you play soccer. Tell me about some of the places where you enjoy playing soccer.
8. INTERNET
Tell me about your favorite type of website to visit. Why do you like it? Give me as many details as you can.
9. MUSIC
You indicated in the survey that you like music. What kind of music do you like, and when do you usually listen to it. Give as many details as you can.
I’d like to know about the amount of vacation you get each year, and more importantly, how you normally spend this time.
10. DENTIST / DOCTOR
Can you tell me how often you go to see a doctor or a dentist? Please tell me what usually happens when you visit your doctor or dentist.
11. TECHNOLOGY
I would like to know how you learned to use a certain skill or technology. Who was it that taught you? How did you learn it? Tell me all the things you had to do to learn how to use that skill or technology.
12. ENGLISH
I would like to know how you first became interested in learning English. When did you start studying it?
Tell me about how you first learned this language and how you are now learning it.
Tell me any difficulties you have in learning a new language.
13. SALON
Can you tell me how often you go to a beauty salon or barber shop? Where is it located and what does it look like? How are the people who work there? Is it expensive to get your hair done there?
14. VACATION
You responded in the survey that you go on vacations internationally. I would like you to describe one of the countries or cities you have visited. What was it like over there and what kind of impression did you get from the locals?
Can you describe for me some of the things that you enjoy doing on your vacation?
Can you tell me what steps you have to take to get your destination on a trip?
Tell me what you do from the moment you leave your house to the moment you check into your hotel your destination.
When people think about traveling to other countries, what may be some of the things they are most interested in? Why do you think these things are of such interest to travelers.
Describe some of things that you like to do with the people you visit or see during your vacation.
Could you describe your most memorable camping trip? Maybe something funny, unexpected or challenging happened. Start by telling me when and where you were camping and who you were with.
Have you ever traveled overseas? If so, please describe one of the countries or cities that you have visited. If not, pick a foreign country or city that you’d like to visit, and describe to me why you’d like to go there.
15. PARK
When did you go to a park most recently? Which park did you go to and who did you go with? Tell me all about that last visit to a park in as much detail as you can.
16. MOVIE
Who is your favorite character from any movie/TV show? Why is that character your favorite? Describe him/her in detail.
17. CHATTING
You indicated that you usually chat on the phone. Tell me who you talk with and what kinds of things you usually talk about. How often and for how long do you talk?
18. CLUBBING
You indicated that you go to clubs. I would like to know about your favorite club. Describe where the club is and what it looks like.
19. BOOK
You indicated that you love reading books. Tell me about your favorite book and what the story was all about.
What kinds of books and what authors do you like to read? What time of the day do you usually read?
I would imagine that there are some books that have been especially memorable for you. Tell me about one of them. When and how you came to read that book? What was the book about? How has reading that book influenced you?
20. COFFEE SHOPS
Is going to coffee shops popular in your country? What kind of coffee shops are there?
21. HOBBIES
Tell me about your hobbies. What kind of hobbies do you have? When and where do you do your hobbies?
22. TV PROGRAMS
Tell me about the TV shows or movies you like to watch. What do you like about them?
23. GADGETS
Tell me about the electronic devices that you own. A cell phone, a PDA, an MP3 player. Describe the gadget in as much detail as you can.
24. EXERCISE
Tell me about any exercise you do. Do you jog? Do you work out with weights? Or do you go for a walk from time to time? Also tell how often you exercise and for how long.
25. SCHOOL
Describe one of your professors to me. What kind of person is he or she? What do you like or dislike about him or her?
You indicated in the survey that you go to school. What kind of courses are you taking or had you taken in the past? Please describe the classes you are taking or have taken in as much detail as possible.
Tell me about the last classes you took. Why did you choose them? What did you do in those classes?
I would like to know what your school looks like. please describe your school for me in as much detail as possible.
I would like to know about something memorable that happened to you in one of your classes. What kinds of interesting episodes do you have? Please tell me about one from the beginning to the end.
You indicated that you have school experience. Have you ever missed a test or important assignment because you were not feeling well? Can you tell me what exactly happened? Please make sure to mention how it turned out in the end.
Have you ever been in a situation in which you wanted to take a class but faced some difficulties? Tell me what happened. How did you resolve the problem?
I’d like to hear about your normal school day. What do you do when you don’t have classes? Where do you usually study? Tell me as much as you can.
How do you get to school? Is that the quickest way? Why did you choose that mode of transportation?
Tell me how you get from your house to school everyday. Also, tell me how long it takes you to get to school on a normal weekday.
You indicated in the survey that you are a college student. I would assume that you have classes you like and classes you don’t like. Compare one class you have liked a lot to a class you have not liked. Describe what you liked about the one and what you did not like about the other.
Tell me about a school project that you recently worked on. What were the steps you took in order to begin working on it and finish the project?
Tell me how you learned to use that particular piece of technology. Who taught you to use it? Tell me everything you did from beginning to end to learn how to use that technology.
Think of a project that you once worked on. where technology made a big difference. Describe the project in detail. What kind of technology did you use? What role did the technology play?
Tell me about a specific orientation you received as a freshmen. What kinds of activities took place in the session?
Tell me about a class that you signed up for but later decided to drop, or thought about dropping. What was the reason? How did it turn out?

ROLE PLAYING

I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Imagine you want to take dance lesson. Call a dance school and ask three or four questions about dance classes.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You want to take a trip within your own country. Call the travel agent and ask three or four questions to find out the information you need.
I’m sorry. There’s a problem which you need to resolve. While your neighbor or family is gone, you notice that there’s a serious problem with one of his/her special plants. Call your friend or your family member, explain in detail what happened to the plant, and make two or three suggestions for replacing it
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You’ve just been told that your current supervisor is leaving the company. Call your supervisor and ask three or four questions about the situation and the possible changes.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Imagine that a neighbor or family member asks you to take care of his/her plants while he/she is away. Ask three or four questions to find out what you need to do.
Now, I’m going to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Let’s say you would like to buy tickets for a sports event for you and your friend. Please ask the person at the ticket booth three or four questions about things you would like to know about the upcoming sports event.
I’m sorry there’s a problem which you need to resolve. You booked a nonrefundable airline ticket. However, something has happened that prevents you from traveling next week. Call the travel agent and explained what has happened.
Let me now give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Let’s say you’re going to need a ride from a friend to get to work tomorrow morning. Call a friend and leave a message on his voice mail. Tell him that you need a ride and then ask three questions to find out things you need to know about getting a ride from him tomorrow.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You receive a call from a family member asking that you help her prepare for a big party. Call the family member and leave a message asking three or four questions to find out everything you can about the party.
I’m sorry. There’s a problem you need to resolve. You’ve just learned that you will have to work on the day of the big party. Call your relative and leave a message explaining the problem. Then offer two or three suggestions on how you might still be able to help with the preparations, even though you won’t be able to go
I’m sorry. There’s a problem you need to resolve. The ticket agent tells you that the event is almost sold out. There are only a few tickets left, and the seats are not together. Call your friend and leave a message explaining what the situation is and offer three or four alternatives.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. There is going to be a sale at one of your favorite shops. You want to know more about the sale. Call the shop and ask three or four questions to find out everything you can about the sale.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You are going to need a ride from a friend in order to get to work tomorrow morning. Call your friend and tell him what you need, then ask three or four questions to find out everything you need to know about traveling with him to work tomorrow morning.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. A friend has invited you to dinner tomorrow night in a restaurant that you have never been to. Call your friend and ask three or four questions about the restaurant.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You receive a message from a family member asking that you help prepare for a big party. Call the family member and leave a message asking three or four questions to find out more about the party.
There is a problem that you need to resolve. You just learned that you will have to work on the day of the big party. Call your family to explain the problem, and then offer two or three suggestions on how you might still be able to help with the preparations, even though you won’t be there for the party.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Your supervisor has just assigned you to participate in a new assignment and has invited you to a meeting.
Ask three or four questions about your responsibilities for this new assignment.I work for ABC Corporation in the U.S. Ask me three or four questions about my company and its products.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. Your friend calls to invite you to a movie. Ask him three or four questions to find out more about that movie.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You are being interviewed for a new job. Ask the interviewer three or four questions to find out more about this job.
I’d like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You’ve just been told that your current boss is leaving the company. Call your boss and leave a message, asking three or four questions about the situation
