1. Vacations at home

Q1) You indicated that you take vacations at home.
WHO DO YOU MEET WHEN YOU SPEND VACATIONS AT HOME?
WHAT DO YOU DO WITH THEM?
Plus, who do you want to meet in the future for your vacation?
Why is that?

Q2) TELL ME ABOUT WHAT YOU DID DURING YOUR LAST VACATION.
How did your vacation start and how it end?
What did you do on each day?
Tell me everything about the things you did on your last vacation at home.

Q3) Now, TELL ME ABOUT AN UNUSUAL OR UNEXPECTED EXPERIENCE YOU HAD DURING A VACATION YOU SPENT AT HOME.
Why was that memorable?
Who were you with?
Where were you at?
What did you do?
What are some things or events that you remember?

Q4) You indicated that you take vacations at home.
What do peopole in your country normally do on their vacations?
How has the way they spend vacations changed over the years?
Give me specific examples.

Q5) Experts state that vacations are important for one's health and one's relationship with others.
Talk a minute to discuss your view on the importance of vacations.



2. Housing

Q1) I would like to know where you live.
WHICH IS YOUR FAVORITE ROOM AT HOME?
What does it look like? What do you mostly do there?
Why do you like that room?

Q2) Now, TELL ME ABOUT THE THINGS THAT YOU DO AT HOME.
What are some daily routines you engage in?
What is special about each activity?

Q3) TELL ME ABOUT THE HOUSE OR APARTMENT YOU LIVED IN WHEN YOU WERE A CHILD.
How was it different from the one you live in now?

Q4) Tell me about a change you made to your home.
What was the change and why did you make that change?
How did your home look like afterwards?
Give me all the details.



3. Movies

Q1) You indicated that you like to go to the movies.
What is your favorite genre of movies?
Why do you like those types of movies?

Q2) Tell me about the movie theaters you typically go to.
What are they like?
Describe a movie theater you often go to in as much detail as possible.

Q3) What was the most memorable movie you watched in the past?
What was it about?
What was so special about that movie?
Would you recommend that movie to other people?

Q4) Could you compare the movies made today to movies you saw while you were growing up?
How have movies changed over the years?
What are the differences and similarities?

Q5) When your friends or family members talk about movies, what topics do you discuss?
Why are these issues of interest or concern to you and your friends?
What makes them so important?
Plus, what are some recent trends in the movie industry?



4. Parks

Q1) You indicated that you like to go to parks.
Tell me about one of the parks that you often visit.
What does it look like?
Tell me what people do there at the park.

Q2) How did you first start going to parks?
What made you visit parks in the first place?
Why do you go to parks now?
Tell me how your interest in going to the parks changed over the years.
Give me all the details.

Q3) Tell me about a memorable incident that happened at the park.
What exactly happened and how did you deal with the situation?
What made that incident so memorable?
Give me all the details.



5. Music

Q1) You indicated that you like to listen to music.
What type of music do you like listening to?
When and where do you like to listen to music?
Why do you listen to music?

Q2) What device do you like to use to listen to music?
Why do you use that device when you listen to music?
Please describe your music-playing device in as much detail as possible.

Q3) Tell me about a time when you went to listen to some live music.
Perhaps it was at a concert or a live cafe.
What was the mood like and how did you like the music you listened to there?

Q4) What kind of music did you listen to when you were young?
How was that music different from the music you listen to today?
How has your interest in music changed over the years?

Q5) Now, pick two singers or composers you like.
What is special about his or her music?
What are some similarities and differences between the two singers or composers?



6. Health

Q1) Now, I'd like to ask you to dcescribe a healthy person.
What makes a person healthy?
Why do you think that way?
Tell me everything about the things you think makes someone healthier.

Q2) What are some things that you personally do to stay healthy?
Do you work out often?
Do you eat well?
There must be something you do to maintain your health.
Tell me what it is that you do for your health.

Q3) Something wrong can happen to our health sometimes.
What are some health problems we can have?
Describe in detail what can happen when someone loses his/her health.
How can a health problem be fixed?

Q4) Tell me about healthy foods that you know of.
What kind of foods help you to stay healthy?
Why are thoses kinds of food healthy for you?
How often do you eat those foods?

Q5) Now, tell me how people used to maintain their health in the past.
How was it different from what people do today?
How do different generations think differently regarding our health?
Give me all the details.

Q6) What are some issues related to our health these days?
Do people talk about that topic a lot?
Take a minute and describe common health-related concerns people have.



7. Reality TV Show

Q1) Tell me about a reality TV show that you like to watch.
Why do you like watching that show?
How often do you tune in?
How does it affect your life?

Q2) Where does the reality program you watch take place?
Why does it take place at that venue?
What is special about that location?
Tell me everything about the place the show is shot at.

Q3) What was the latest episode of the reality show you've watched?
What was so memorable about that episode?
Give me all the details about what made that particular episode more memorable.

Q4) Discuss the issues that come up when you talk about reality TV shows with your friends.
What is the main topic and why do people talk about that?

Q5) How has reality TV programs changed over the years?
How are the shows different from what they used to be?
How did you first become interested in them in the first place?
How did your interest change?
Give me specific examples of the changes reality shows have had.



8. Shopping.

Q1) Let's talk about your shopping habits. How often do you go shopping?
What do you most often buy?
Where do you go for your shopping?
Who do you go with?

Q2) When was the last time you went to shop for something?
Where did you go and what did you buy?
Who did you go with?
What was special about that shopping experience?
Give me all the details.

Q3) People sometimes go through difficulties while they are shopping.
WHat are somethings people have to deal with while they are shopping?
How do you personally deal with hose problems?

Q4) Unexpected things can happen during a shopping trip.
What kind of problems have you personally experienced while shopping?
How did you deal with the situation?

Q5) How has ways people buy groceries changed over the years?
Where did people buy food in the past, and how do they buy them now?

Q6) Food can go bad because of bacteria infections.
Tell me about an incident you heard or read about on this issue.
What was the problem?
How was it dealt with?



9. Bars

Q1) You indicated that you go to bars.
Describe the bar you go to most often.
Tell me everything about that place in detail.

Q2) Describe the bar area at the bar you go to.
What does it look like?
What is special about that area?
Give me all the details.

Q3) Tell me about what people normally do at bars.
What do you personally do there?
Who do you normally go with?
Tell me everything about your experience of going to bars.

Q4) Tell me about a memorable incident that happened at a bar.
What exactly happened and why was it special?
Tell me everything about that drinking session at the bar that day.



10. Restaurant

Q1) I would like to know about restaurants in your country.
What do typical restaurants look like?
What kind of food do they commonly offer?
How are the people who work there?
Give me all the details about a typical restaurant in your country.

Q2) Tell me about a restaurant you ate out at recently.
What kind of restaurant was it?
What was their menu and what did you eat?
Who did you go with?
Did you like how the food tasted?
Give me all the details.

Q3) Now, tell me about a restaurant you used to go to as a child.
What was it like?
What did you eat?
Who did you go with?
What do you remember most about that place?
Tell me about that restaurant in as much detail as possible.

Q4) Tell me about how restaurants have changed over the years.
What are the differences of restuarants you go to today?
Also, tell me about what is different about going out to eat.
What are some changes you noticed about people going out to eat?

Q5) How do you choose where to go when you go out to eat?
What kind of food do you prefer?
What do your family members like to eat and what kind of restaurant do they prefer?



11. Holidays

Q1) What do you do for family holidays?
Do you get together with family?
What do family members do together?
What do you talk about?
What kind of food is eaten (do you eat)?
Tell me everything about family holiday traditions.

Q2) Talk about a memorable incident you had for a holiday.
Why was that incident unforgettable?
Who was involved?
Tell me everything from beginning to end regarding what happened.

Q3) Has holidays or holiday customs in your country changed over the years?
Are they different from what they used to be?
If so, tell me about the changes holidays have gone through.



12. Technology Phone

Q1) What piece of technology do you use everyday?
How do you use it and how often do you use this gadget?
Would you say that you highly depend on technology throughout the day?
Tell me all about it.

Q2) A new type of technology can be frustrating.
Tell me about a time when you had trouble due to a new technology.
What kind of problems did that technology give you?
WHy was it frustrating?
Tell me everything about that experience you had.

Q3) How has the technology you use changed over the years?
What is different with the technology you use today compared to the technology you used in the past?
Give me all the details.

Q4) How are phones you use today different from the ones you used in the past?
What kind of difference do phones make in your life?
Give me all the details.

Q5) Tell me about some issues people talk about related to cell phones.
Why do people talk about that topic?
Why is it a problem?
Tell me everything you know about that topic.



13. Furniture.

Q1) What kind of furniture do you have at home?
Tell me about each type of furniture.
Plus, what is your favorite piece of furniture?
Why do you like that?
When did you get it?

Q2) Tell me about the furniture you had when you were young.
How are they different from the furniture you have today?
Give me specific examples of the differences.

Q3) Tell me about a time when you had problems with your furniture.
Perhaps it could have gotten damaged for some reason or it could have been broken.
Tell me what exactly happened and how you solved the problem.



14. Technology Internet

Q1) Tell me about the Technology you use in your daily life.
How often do you use the technology?
How does that technology help you?
Tell me everything about the things you do with that Technology.

Q2) What kind of things do you do on the Internet?
Do you find out about new things or do you shop for stuff online?
Tell me about the most typical things that you do on the Internet.

Q3) People can experience some unpleasant things on the Internet.
Tell me about a personal experience that sticks out in your memory?
What was the problem and how hard was it to solve the problem?
What happened in the end?

Q4) How has the Internet changed our lives?
How was life before the Internet different from life now?
What is the biggest change that has had an impact on our lives?
Give me specific examples.



15. Geography.

Q1) Tell me about the geography of your country.
Are there rivers or mountains?
Describe the geography in as much detail as possible.

Q2) Tell me about outdoor activities you engage in.
How does the geography of your country help you do that activity?
What do you usually do?
How often do you do it?
Who do you do it with?
Give me all the details.

Q3) Describe the last place you visited related to the geography of your country.
What was special about that place?
What did you do there?
Tell me everything about the landscape and why you went there.

Q4) Tell me about a country that has similar geographical traits as your country.
Describe that country in detail.

Q5) Talk about a reason why the country you mentioned above is in the news.
What are some issues related to that country these days.



16. Text-messaging

Q1) You indicated that you send text messages to your friends.
Tell me about what kind of text messages people send or receive in general.
What are they about?
How often do people use text messages?

Q2) Now, tell me about texts you personally send.
What are they about?
What kind of texts do you get from others?

Q3) We all have text messages that we remember.
Tell me about a text message that you remember.
Maybe it was with a friend or a co-worker.
Maybe the person told you something surprising.
Maybe you heard something unexpected.
Tell me why that text message was memorable to you.



17. Appointments


Q1) Now, tell me about appointments you make in your life.
What kinds of appointments are they and how do you make them?
Talk about what happens at your appointments.

Q2) Talk about an appointment you had in the past.
What was the appointment about?
Was it with a doctor or with a dentist?
Did you have an appointment with your hairdresser?
What did you do to make the appointment and what actually happened when you got----------?

Q3) Unexpected things can happen during an appointment.
Talk about a memorable incident you experienced during an appointment.



18. Recycling

Q1) I'd like to know about how recycling is practiced in your country.
WHat do people specifically do?
What is special about recycling at where you are?
Give me all the details.
What exactly happened and how did you deal with the situation?

Q2) Now, tell me about how you personally recycle.
Do you separate the recycling every day?
Where do you take out the recycling to?
Tell me everything about the ways you practice recycling in your daily life.

Q3) How is recycling you practiced when you were young different from what you do today?
Are there any big differences?
Are there any similarities?
Tell me about how recycling has changed over the years.



19. Beaches

Q1) You've indicated that you like to go to the beach.
Which beach do you like to go to?
Where is it?
What does it look like?
How often do you go to this beach?
How do people get there?
Does it get crowded?

Q2) When you go to the beach, what do you usually do there?
WHo do you go with?
Tell me everything you know about activities at the beach.

Q3) Tell me about a particularly memorable trip to the beach.
Who were you with?
Which beach were you at?
What did you do there?
What made this trip to the beach more memorable or special?
Tell me everything you did from the moment you arrived there.



20. Cafe / Coffee Shops

Q1) You indicated that you go to cafes or coffee shops.
Describe what coffee shops look like in general.
Describe the cafe you go to most often as well.

Q2) What was the reason you first started to go to cafes?
Why do you remember your first visit to cafes?
What do you personally do there?
Tell me everything about your experiences of going to cafes.

Q3) Tell me about a memorable or unforgettable incident that happened at a cafe.
What happened?
Who was involved?
How did you deal with the situation?

Q4) What kind of role does cafes or coffee shops play in people's lives?
Tell me about what people normally do when they go to cafes.

Q5) How has cafes changed over the years?
How were they in the past and how are they now? 
Is there anything special about cafes today?
Tell me everything about how cafes are today.



21. Hotels

Q1) I'd like to know about the hotels at where you are.
What are they like?
Where are they located?
Are they different from the hotels in other countries?
Tell me about the hotels in your country in as much detail as possible.

Q2) Tell me about the things you do when you arrive at a hotel.
What is the first thing you do?
What do you do after that?
Who do you talk to?
Talk about all the thing you do when you check into a hotel.

Q3) There are many unique hotels around the world.
Tell me about a memorable hotel you stayed at.
Why was that hotel special?
How did you pick that hotel in the first place?
What do you remember most about your stay at that hotel?



22. Weather.

Q1) Tell me about the weather at where you live.
How are the seasons?
What is the weather like in each season?
Which season do you personally like?
Tell me everything about the weather?

Q2) How has the weather in your country changed over the years?
Is the weather different from what it used to be?
How has it changed?
Give me all the details.

Q3) Tell me about a memorable incident related to the weather.
What was the problem and how did you deal with the situation?
What made that incident unforgettable?

Q4) How was the weather today at where you are?
Was it cold, was it warm?
Talk about today's weather in detail.



23. Transportation

Q1) How do people in your country move around?
What kind of transportation do people take?
Do people drive or use other means of transportation such as the train or the bus.
Tell me everything about how people move around.

Q2) Now, tell me how transportation has changed over the years.
How is the way people move around different now compared to the past?

Q3) Tell me about a time when you had trouble due to a certain mode of transportation.
Perhaps your car could have broken down or you might have run into a traffic jam.
What exactly happened and
How did you deal with the situation?
Give me all the details.



24. Social Media

Q1) You indicated that you post up messages in social networking sites.
Tell me about the kind of messages people post up in general.
What are they about?
How often do people post up messages on these sites?

Q2) Now, tell me about the messages you post up on social networking sites.
Plus, what kind of comments do you leave on other people's postings?
How often do you post up things on your social networking account?

Q3) Now, tell me about the messages you post up on social networking sites.
Plus, what kind of comments do you leave on other people's postings?
How often do you post up things on your social networking account?

Q4) We all have postings that we remember.
Tell me about a posting that you remember.
Maybe it was something that you put up, or it was by another person?
Was a picture or video clip attached to it?
Give me all the details about that posting and why it was so memorable.

Q5) What is your favorite website?
What can you do there?
Why do you like using that website?
How often do you log on?
What would you like to change about that website?

Q6) Tell me about when people are impolite on social networking sites.
Why do you think those behaviors are rude?
Give me specific examples of how people behave impolitely on social networking sites.

Q7) Rumors tend to spread on social networking sites.
Talk about how rumors are born, and how they spread.
Talk about a specific example of a rumor that caused some controversy.

Q8) Now, let's talk about how social networking sites have changed over the years?
What are some evident changes?
What kind of impact has those changes had on users?

25. Gathering / Celebration

Q1) Talk about gatherings and celebrations in your country.
What do people do when they get together or to celebrate things?

Q2) What did you do at your last gathering or celebration?
What was the occasion?
Give me all the details about the gathering or the celebration you had.

Q3) Talk about a memorable incident that happened at a gathering or a celebration.
Why was it memorable? What made it unforgettable?



26. Bank

Q1) Let’s talk about the bank you go to.
Where is it located, and what is it like?

Q2) Banks have changed over the years.
How were banks when you were young?
How are they different. from what they look like now?

Q3) Problems can occur when you are at the bank.
Perhaps you could have forgotten to take your ID with you.
Talk about a problem you personally had at a bank.
How did you solve that problem?



++++++ROLE PLAY questions+++++++

1. MP3 Player.
Q1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
You would like to buy an MP3 Player.
 - CALL YOUR FRIEND AND ASK ABOUT THE MP3 PLAYER HE/SHE IS USING.
 - ASK THREE OR FOUR QUESTIONS THAT WILL HELP YOU DECIDE WHETHER YOU WANT TO BUY THE PRODUCT YOUR FRIEND IS USING.



Q2. I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need to resolve.
You have borrowed your friend's MP3 Player but broke it by accident.
 - CALL YOUR FRIEND AND EXPLAIN THE SITUATION.
 - GIVE 2 OR 3 ALTERNATIVES THAT WILL HELP SOLVE THE SITUATION.

Q3. That's the end of the situation.
Do you have any personal experience when a device broke and you had trouble because of that?
What exactly happened and how did you fix the problem?
Tell me everything about that experience.



2. Technology PHONE

Q1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
You would like to buy a new cell phone.
 - CALL A STORE AND ASK 3 OR 4 QUESTIONS ABOUT A NEW PHONE YOU WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE.


Q2. I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need you to resolve.
You have received the new phone but the features are not what you expected.
YOU WOULD LIKE TO RETURN IT TO GET A NEW PHONE.
 - CALL THE STORE, EXPLAIN THE SITUATION AND MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO GET A NEW PRODUCT.

Q3. That's the end of the situation. Problems can occur when you are using your phone.
You could perhaps get disconnected while talking on the phone.
Tell me about a TIME WHEN YOU HAD TROUBLE USING YOUR PHONE.
What exactly happened and how did you solve the situation?
Give me all the details.



3. Furniture

Q1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
You're at a furniture store to buy a piece of furniture.
Ask the clerk 3 or 4 questions about the furniture you would like to buy.

Q2.  I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need you to resolve.
You have received the furniture you bought at home.
But there is something wrong with the furniture.
 - CALL THE FURNITURE STORE, EXPLAIN THE SITUATION AND ASK FOR A WAY TO GET AN EXCHANGE OR YOUR MONEY BACK.

Q3.  That's the end of the situation.
 - HAVE YOU EVER ORDERED ANYTHING TO YOUR HOME AND WAS NOT SATISFIED WITH THE PRODUCT OR SERVICE?
Tell me what the problem was and how you dealt with the situation.



4. Performance

Q1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
You want to BUY TICKETS to go watch a performance tonight.
-> Call the theater and ask two to three questions about ways to get tickets.

Q2.  I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need you to resolve.
You found out that the TICKETS for tonight's performance are SOLD OUT.
-> Call your friend and explain about the situation.
Give two or three alternatives to solve the situation.

Q3.  That's the end of the situation.
Plans to watch a performance can change.
Tell me about a time when you couldn't go watch a performance or when you had to cancel your plans.
What happened?
Why couldn't you go?
What did you do to resolve the situation?



5. Concerts

Q1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
Your friend wants to go to a concert with you.
-> Call your friend and ask three or four questions about the concert.

1. When does the concert start?
2. Where is the concert held?
3. How much is the ticket for that concert?
4. I think I make time next Wednesday, how about you?
5. Do I need to prepare anything for the concert?

Q2.  I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need you to resolve.
You have bought the concert tickets for today, but AT THE LAST MINUTE you are SO SICK that you can't even get out of bed.
-> CALL your friend and explain your situation.
Give two or three alternatives to your friend.

Alternatives.
1. Invite your friend to the concert. Will give you my ticket.
2. Will call the ticket office and ask for a refund or change it to the next one.
3. Cancel this concert, and go again next week. I’ll get both of our tickets.

What do you think?
I will wait for your call.
Again, so sorry about canceling at the last minute.

Q3. That's the end of the situation.
HAVE YOU EVER bought concert tickets or made plans for a trip but had to cancel at the last minute because of something that happened unexpectedly?
Tell me everything about what had happened that prevented you from going.



6. Management Office

Q1.  I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.
You are a person living in an apartment.
-> CALL the management office and ask three or four questions about the apartment you live in.

Q2.  I'm sorry, but there is a problem I need you to resolve.
One of the WINDOWS in your apartment has been BROKEN.
-> CALL the management office and explain the situation.
Give two to three alternatives to fix the problem.

Q3. That's the end of the situation.
Now, tell me about a time WHEN YOU BROKE SOMETHING AT HOME.
WHAT exactly HAPPENED and HOW DID YOU SOLVE the problem.
Give me all the details from beginning to end.
